Typically, small-scale farmers grow their crops and sell them at low prices to the wholesale market and have to go through multiple middlemen for the product to reach the retailers. Alternatively, they gather their products at a cooperative society and participate in bidding to sell them. However, many potential bidders are unable to physically participate in the auctions due to various reasons like geographical constraints and unpredictable weather conditions. Additionally, not all bidders are fortunate enough to purchase the products at their desired prices, often leaving empty-handed. As a result, small-scale bidders are discouraged from participating. The farmers also feel unrewarded and often do not receive the income they deserve as they tend to spend more on producing the crops with the help of pesticides, buying high quality seeds and other technologies which ultimately leads the farmers to go into debt.

That is where this project, HarvestHub comes into play.facilitates online bidding for the produce produced by the farmers. Farmers will gather their supplies at a designated spot, where a quality checker officer from our team will assess the freshness and quality of their products. If the products meet our standards, we will initiate the bidding process, starting from a reasonable price that is predicted using AI according to the current market trends and the popularity of a particular produce in that season. Retailers from different locations can participate in the bidding within the specified time frame. If they win the auction, they can either collect the supplies themselves or request delivery to their location.

This approach will eliminate the need for middlemen (and cut short the expenses faced while transactions done between these middlemen) and provide farmers with the opportunity to showcase their products and receive bids from a wide range of potential retailers that are present around their area. It will also reduce the investment required by retailers, allowing them to participate in multiple auctions simultaneously. By implementing this app, we aim to create a more efficient and inclusive marketplace for both farmers and retailers and ultimately help the consumers as well.
